Now that I've given
you the bird's eye
view of all the different
phases in the stream,
let's start talking
about how to apply
specific categories of
computable future methods,
starting with the
factory methods.
We're going to apply this Apply
Async factory method here.
So what this method is
going to be used to do
is initiate an
asynchronous check
to see if images
are cached locally.
And that's what happens when
Map calls the behavior Check
URL Cached Async.
And we're going to look
at that in just a second.
And that will go ahead
and asynchronously
check to see if the URL has
already been downloaded.
The Map call here returns a
stream of completable futures
to optional URLS, where
the value of the URL
will be where the URL
will have a value,
where the option will have
a value, if the URL is not
cached, or the option
will be considered empty
if it is already cached.
As we'll see here, later phases,
later stages in this stream
pipeline, we'll simply ignore
empty optional URL values.
So if something was cached,
we're just going to ignore it.
And the way we ignore it is we
just make an empty optional.
And that'll be ignored
by everything else.
The reason we have to do this is
because we can't use the filter
operation with
asynchronous computations,
the way we could do for
synchronous computations, just
one of the quirks of using
parallel streams or streams.
They kind of think they
want to work primarily
with synchronous stuff.
And we're kind of
shoehorning them to work
with asynchronous stuff.
But not every method can
be used as conveniently
as we might want.
So here is the Check
URL Cached Async method.
And this uses the Supply Async
factory method internally
to go ahead and check to
see if the URL is cached.
Here's what it does.
It goes ahead and calls the
Supply Async Factory method
on completable future,
which registers
an action that will then be run
asynchronously in a given pool.
Now, if you take a
look here, you'll
see that we actually
give it a pool this time.
So normally, we've just
been using the default
Supply Async, which just runs
in the common fork joint pool.
For a variety of reasons,
not the least of which
is illustrated if you go look at
the version 2 of this program,
we wanted to be able to provide
different kinds of pools.
In this particular
case, however, this pool
uses the common fork joint pool.
So if you go and look at the
code and the framework that
initializes the whole
thing, we set the executor
to be the fork join
pool common pool.
So when the get executor
method is called here--
it's just an accesor method--
it'll get the common
fork joint pool.
But I do this because
it's trivial to switch
to use different
pools and then see
if there's any implication
with respect to performance.
The actual action
that's registered here
is going to use the optional
of nullable factory method.
And what this does is
it's going to take the--
it's going to end up having
either null or URL pass to it.
So of nullable is
a factory method
that can create an optional,
even with a null value.
If it's a null value,
it'll be an empty optional.
If it's a non-null value,
it'll be an optional
with a value present.
And what we're
going to do here, is
we're going to end up calling
the URL cache method, which
we'll talk about
in just a moment,
just to check to see
if the URL is cached.
If the URL is cached,
we return null,
because we want to
make an empty optional,
because we're
going to ignore it.
If the URL is not cached,
we return the URL,
so we'll end up with an
optional containing that URL.
Here's what URL cache does.
It goes out, and it uses
the stream framework
to check to see if we've already
created a file with the name
corresponding to the
filter, because there
can be multiple filters.
We check to see if those exist.
If there's any of them the
accounts greater than zero,
we know that it's
already cached.
And the URL cached
method with one parameter
calls the URL cached
method with two parameters.
And that just goes
and checks to see
if there's a file with that
name already in the file system.
And I think as I
mentioned when we talked
about complete futures,
they're clearly
better ways of implementing
an image cache.
You should really take advantage
of the max age parameter
you could use with
HTTP and web servers.
But this is just a way to
get the program to run.